Aspiring to look into the eyes of my children and see joy.
Yearning for them to look back into mine and see pride.
Two sides of an equation I didn’t get to be a variable in,
But now I’ll redeem and edify and cover with love.

In a way, my mom and dad did the best they could.
Burdened by demons keeping them from what they should.
Make them clean, remove distractions, I hope they’d be good.
To be honest, deep down I’m not sure that they would.

The demon my mom warred with was manic bipolar.
She would be kind and loving and loyal on the good days,
Confusing and deceptive and selfish on the bad days.
I couldn’t reckon with her while young, pushed her away until it was too late.

My dad struggled with things I’m fortunate to not know.
I just wished he was there for me before, would actually show.
Maybe because of his absence I was able to grow,
But I’ll always be waiting on that curb, hope not letting go.

My grandparents took me in when I was still young.
I was destined to be misguided and aimless and helpless.
A rocket veering one way and another until there was nothing left.
They said “no, not him. We love him and he’ll be just fine.”

Ah, the joy I feel when I think about my wife, my buddy, my lover.
I’ve searched the world for the ends of my affection for her.
Planet to planet, galaxy to galaxy, there is no end. It’s forever.
Boundless, unfathomable,  and mighty love beyond measure.

I’m not sure how I found Kayli or why I deserve her dedication.
I love her and I want the world to know. Smart, beautiful, funny.
Her love is gift enough to last a lifetime yet she gave us children.
More universes to unconditionally love and be loved.

Actually, I struggle with accepting how much my first daughter loves me.
Something inside me pushes and pulls and rips. Some insecurity.
Ask me to be honest and I’ll say she loves me. I know I’m being silly.
If I had to guess, I think it’s because I want to be a good dad so badly.

My second daughter is days away. I can’t wait to see her face.
She’ll be wild and lovely and tough but mostly whoever she wants to be.
I want to hug her and cuddle her and tickle her and laugh with her.
But mostly I want her to be who she wants to be and do it proudly.

That’s what it’s about isn’t it? Loving our kids as they become who they are.
Staying out of the way, walking beside them until they can go far.
We want them to vibrant and confident and make it without a scar.
As long as we get to try.

There was one before my first daughter. One that I love and miss. I yearned to see my wife be that child’s mother and me that child’s father. I would have been there for everything, cheering and crying and celebrating each moment. I wouldn’t have been the perfect father just like I’m not now, but I would have tried. Redeeming my shaky childhood. Breaking the pattern of hurt begetting hurt. My dream to foster love in my little universe had to wait.